# Documentation

The project enables you to perform various usefull operations using the `make` command 

## Commands

### develop

The `develop` command starts the required Docker containers for the application to run locally. The containers that are started are:

- `cassandra`: A database to store the data.
- `cassandra-load-keyspace`: A container that initializes the keyspace and tables in Cassandra.
- `zookeeper`: A container that manages Kafka instances.
- `broker`: A Kafka broker that is required to send messages from the `companies` service.

After all these containers are started, you can separately run your app to test it. 
### build

The `build` command compiles the Go application in the `cmd` directory and generates the binary in the `bin` directory. It uses `CGO_ENABLED=0` to build a static binary without any C dependencies.

### dockerbuild

The `dockerbuild` command builds a Docker image of the application using the binary generated by the `build` command. It uses the `VERSION` file to tag the image with the appropriate version.

### lint

The `lint` command runs the `golangci-lint` tool to analyze the Go code in the `companies` application. It uses the configuration file `golangci.yaml` to check for any linting errors.

### run

The `run` command starts the `companies` application using Docker Compose. It uses the `build` command to generate the binary before starting the application.

### test

The `test` command runs all the unit tests in the `./...` directory. It uses the `-count=1` flag to disable test caching.

### genmocks

The `genmocks` command generates the mocks for the `companies` application using the script `mocks/generate.sh`.

## Usage

To use the Makefile, navigate to the root directory of the project and enter the following commands:

```shell
make develop
```

This command will start the necessary dependencies for local development using Docker Compose. Specifically, it will start the following services:

- Cassandra
- Cassandra load keyspace
- Zookeeper
- Kafka Broker

```shell
make build
```

This command will compile the application and output a binary file named `app` in the `bin` directory.

```shell
make dockerbuild
```

This command will build a Docker image of the application and tag it with the current version specified in the `VERSION` file. The command also depends on the `build` command, which means it will first compile the application before building the Docker image.

```shell
make lint
```

This command will run the linter tool, `golangci-lint`, on the entire codebase. It is configured to use the `golangci.yaml` configuration file located in the root directory of the project.

```shell
make run
```

This command will start the application and its dependencies using Docker Compose.

```shell
make test
```

This command will run all the tests in the `./...` directory and output the results.
```shell
make genmocks
```

This command will generate mocks using `gomock` for any interfaces located in the `./mocks` directory. It executes the `generate.sh` script in the `./mocks` directory.


## Usage in a CI/CD Pipeline

Here's an example of how these commands could be used in a CI/CD pipeline:

1. **Linting**: The `lint` command can be used to check the code for any syntax errors or style violations.

```shell
make lint
```
2. **Run tests**: The next step is to run the unit tests to ensure that the application is working as expected. This can be done using the `test` command.

```shell
make test
```

3. **Build the application**: The first step is to build the application using the `build` command. This command compiles the code and generates an executable file that can be run on any machine.

```shell
make build
```

4. **Build Docker image**: The `dockerbuild` command builds a Docker image of the application using the Dockerfile in the project root.

```shell
make dockerbuild
```

5. **Deploy**: Once the Docker image is built, it can be deployed to a production environment using a tool like Kubernetes, Docker Swarm, or AWS ECS.

These commands can be automated and run as part of a CI/CD pipeline, allowing for continuous integration, testing, and deployment of the application.